{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1150\margr1150\margb1150\margt1150
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa180\qj

\f0\fs24 \cf0 At Shopify's first annual UX summit in July, Verne Ho gave a great talk on defining your design truths. Verne went back to his roots of illustrating and discussed and tried to understand what made those days of sketching these comic book characters so amazing. \
He mentioned that it's important for every designer to have truths, or principles that they can relate to. I've been thinking a lot about this lately, but when I tried to take a stab at it, I kept hitting a wall. How the heck do you define what your design principles are?\
Here's a couple ways that helped me find my design principles. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa180

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Defining your principles\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa180\qj

\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 Articles
\b0  I looked through a ton of webpages looking at principles for design, and for life in general. What I noticed is that there's no universal truth for everyone, and although there are a few tidbits here in there that resonated, this wouldn't be where I'd find my principles.\

\b Design Reviews / Fresh Eyes
\b0  At Shopify, where I work, we have regular feedback sessions with other designers who take a look at your work. Having other designers take a look at your work is massive. It allows you to see your work from a different perspective, and can help to highlight areas that are confusing to non-subject matter experts.\

\b Day to day work
\b0  Throughout the day as I was working on projects, I took a crack at writing things down every time I'd reach a fork in the road. These small bits of information were really helpful to give a practical example that could then be used to anchor a design principle.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa180\qj
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "BOOK"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 image}} Once I had a list of these practical examples, I then grouped them whenever a few different things fit together, and renamed them when other parts didn't fit. In the end I ended up with 5 main principles, but I think this list will be ever evolving.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa180

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf0 What principles did I come up with?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa180\qj

\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 User + context
\b0  Focus on the job that they need to accomplish. Focus on their goals, motivations, strengths and weaknesses. When and where do they perform the task? Until you understand the user, you can't solve the problem. Mobile and desktop are the medium, what is the message? \
It's possible to find the right solution, to the wrong problem. Find the right problem to solve first. All other principles are secondary to this one.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa180\qj
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "Glasses"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 image}} 
\b Clarity
\b0  Information should be in terms that they understand/expect. Results of an action should be expected.\
Do users need to understand the technical terms? Could they accomplish the same goals without them?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa180\qj
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "leapfrog"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 image}} 
\b Just enough innovation
\b0  When diverging from existing patterns, it should be "just enough". Don't reinvent the wheel, unless you are sure that a new pattern is justified.\
There's a reason why sci-fi interface interaction patterns are just out of reach. If they went to far out, we wouldn't be able to understand how they function.\
[image](f1 bus) 
\b Product focus
\b0  Clearly define your problem and solve it. Solving all problems for every kind of person will reduce the effectiveness for those who you are actually designing for. A focus product solves a problem for some people, an unfocused product does not solve a problem for everyone.\
If you are designing an F1 car, it doesn't need to seat a family of 6, nor does it need stow n' go seating.\
[image](Tree diagram) 
\b Just enough information
\b0  Complexity should increase gradually. For new users, they need to be able to learn small pieces at a time, and build upon those learnings. Advanced information should be accessible, but not primary. \
Reveal what is necessary, and allow users to dive in to reveal more secondary information. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sb240\sa180

\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf0 Conclusion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa180\qj

\f0\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 It may be daunting at first to define your principles, it's well worth it. Having your principles defined allows you to fall back on something when you are stuck. Have you defined your design principles? Give it a shot and let me know what you come up with?\
}