---
title: "Another Post"
sketch: processing_sketch_mothership.html
post_id: "test"
author: "Russell Baylis"
date:   2015-03-12
layout: post
hero_image_url: "front-optim.jpg"
image_url_1: "side.jpg"
image_url_2: "side.jpg"
primary_h: 200
primary_s: 100
primary_l: 51
secondary_h: 150
secondary_s: 100
secondary_l: 70
primary_t_h: 0
primary_t_s: 0
primary_t_l: 22
secondary_t_h: 201
secondary_t_s: 20
secondary_t_l: 20
viewbox_title_x: 778
viewbox_title_y: 71.0
viewbox_cover_x: 17.0
viewbox_cover_y: 12.0
title_text: "Another Post"
filed_under: "Random shit"
---


When I started working at Shopify about two years ago, the first thing I saw on my way into the office after leaving the elevator was this beautiful illuminated illustration of this space-woman greeting you, and welcoming you to the Shopify Mothership. It gave off such a cool vibe on your way in, and makes you appreciate that you’re somewhere special. There was such a contrast between the sketchy exterior of the building and hallway on the first floor, compared with the office. Shopify has since moved from that office, along with the sign to 150 Elgin street.

When I was asked if I could create a piece for the Cafe at the office, I was really excited. Not just tonnes of Shopifolk come through the Cafe everyday on there way to their desks, but also for any guests that are around for events.

It was important that whatever we put on this wall, it had to make people feel welcome, and serve as a introduction to Shopify, in the same way that the illustration of the space woman did.

When we first started thinking about the design of the wall, we gathered a lot of reference material. Originally we focused on very ornamental or floral typography, which fit well with the Café. After a while of exploring, we decided that we'd echo the message now on the 8th floor— Welcome to the Shopify Mothership. Once we had that down the direction changed. It became focused, and knew that the ornamental floral look wouldn't work. It wouldn't support the message.

We realized that we'd need to build the layout in single colour (white on black) and so the details had to all work in single colour. We focused on finding a layout and style that worked well with the dimensions of the chalk wall (12 x 10 feet).

Since the wall had already been painted with blackboard paint it was decided that we'd need chalk. I'd done a bit of work in the past with chalk markers and really enjoyed the clean lines you could get that just aren't possible with regular chalk. They are a bit on the pricey side, but each one goes a long way, I only went through one doing the whole wall. You can pick some up here.


To get an idea of style I did a lot of research into the materials that go into a space shuttle. It began with NASA patches and figuring out the tough balance between illustration and typography. After playing around with some ba

Since this was going to be such a large piece, I decided to design the layout and overall shape digitally, rather than figure out all the dimensions by hand. Purists might be disappointed, but it allowed me to figure out size, shape and flow in a way that wouldn't have otherwise been possible.

{% include image-helper.html url_1="side.jpg?ar_landscape" url_2="side.jpg" url_3="side.jpg" url_4=page.image_url_2  caption_title="Side view" caption_sub="Photography by Annette Keys" alignment="right" %}
[yo yo yo](#)
EXPLORATION
- inspiration
- layout concepts
- style building
- detailed concepts


EXECUTION
- chalk markers
- digital layout
- free handing / tracing projections

Credit
- Annette Photography


